**Theorem 5.22** (Borel Zero-One Law). Let $X_1, X_2, \ldots$ be a sequence of independent random variables. Then its tail field is trivial, that is, any set in the tail field has probability zero or one.

**Proof.** Let $\Lambda \in \mathcal{F}^*_\infty$. Let $\mathcal{H}$ be the class of all events $\Gamma$ such that

\[
(5.3) \quad P\{\Gamma \cap \Lambda\} = P\{\Gamma\} P\{\Lambda\}.
\]

Let $\mathcal{F}_n = \sigma(X_1, \ldots, X_n)$, and put $\mathcal{F}_\infty = \sigma(X_1, X_2, \ldots)$. Intuitively, $\mathcal{F}_n$ contains all the information in the first $n$ random variables, and $\mathcal{F}_\infty$ contains the information in all of them. Note that $\mathcal{F}_n$ and $\mathcal{F}^*_n$ are generated by disjoint families of independent random variables, and are therefore independent. Moreover, $\Lambda \in \mathcal{F}^*_n$, so any $\Gamma \in \mathcal{F}_n$ satisfies (5.3). Thus $\mathcal{F}_n \subset \mathcal{H}$. Consequently, $\bigcup_n \mathcal{F}_n \subset \mathcal{H}$. Now $\bigcup_n \mathcal{F}_n$ is a field, but it may not be a $\sigma$-field. Let $\mathcal{F}_\infty = \sigma(\bigcup_n \mathcal{F}_n)$. We claim that $\mathcal{F}_\infty \subset \mathcal{H}$. To see this, note that $\mathcal{H}$ contains the field $\bigcup_n \mathcal{F}_n$. Then, by the Monotone Class Theorem (Theorem 1.5), it is sufficient to prove that $\mathcal{H}$ is a monotone class.

Suppose that $\Gamma_1, \Gamma_2, \ldots$ are in $\mathcal{H}$: (5.3) holds for each $\Gamma_n$. If either $\Gamma_1 \subset \Gamma_2 \subset \ldots$ or $\Gamma_1 \supset \Gamma_2 \supset \ldots$, we can go to the limit on both sides to see that (5.3) holds for $\Gamma = \lim_n \Gamma_n$. Thus $\mathcal{H}$ is a monotone class, and therefore it contains $\mathcal{F}_\infty$. But certainly $\Lambda \in \mathcal{F}_\infty$, so we can take $\Gamma = \Lambda$: $P\{\Lambda\} = P\{\Lambda\} P\{\Lambda\}$. That is, $\Lambda$ is independent of itself! But there are only two solutions of $x = x^2$, zero and one. Therefore, $P\{\Lambda\} = 0$ or $1$. Done!  □

So, any event in the tail field has probability either 0 or 1, and any tail random variable (i.e., $\mathcal{F}^*_\infty$-measurable) is constant a.e. It goes without saying that the hypothesis of independence is essential. For instance, if all the $X_n$ are equal, the tail field is $\sigma(X_1)$.
